# physical book pdf and gitbook

As a programmer, it's a good way to enjoy a systematic learning by reading books. But the fact is that different kinds of book you are reading may result in different ending.


### physical book 
Physical books are the most original books. Today there still lots of people who love physical books rather than digital one reasonably for that physical books "have more sentiment". What's more, you don't have to be care about data traction by reading physical books while others's data may be collected. You will also be more focused for that there are no interference like ads.

However, the physical books may not fits you if you are a programmer. Most codes in physical books are not highlighted for the limitation that most of books are pressed with only one or two colors. If you learn coding by reading physical books, you may felt terrible.


### PDF
PDF(Portable Document Format) books are widespreaded in the Internet reasonably for that $.pdf$ file could be open in all mainstream browsers developed by Adobe. $.pdf$ is the most well-known digital book file format for that it won't be reshaped either being opened in tablet or being opened in computer. 

The weakness of PDF books is that the code indent may be terrible if you copy the code from the $.pdf$ file to your IDE, which is unacceptable for $Python$ programmers.


### GitBook
GitBooks are usually open sources digital books writen by $MarkDown$. The codes in GitBooks are usually highlighted so that the codes are easy to read, and you can easily copy the codes from GitBook to your IDE while you don't have to be care about the indent problem. 
The problem is that the gitbook usually depends on the internet, so once the owner delete the gitbook or the pictures of the gitbook was lost, you will have trouble in reading it.